As you can kind of guess
from the preamble,
the majority of our time together is
kind of on that systems piece and like,
yes, could you write build processes for
all sorts of things?
Sure, but the lowest common denominator of
the thing that you should be automating
is likely and enforcing, is likely
does your application work, right?
Once you have hit that level
of the hierarchy of needs,
you can move up to other ones like,
is the title of their
pull request formatted in a way that
automatically closes the JIRA ticket?
When you're solving those kinds
of problems, I love it, but
you gotta you gotta solve
the baseline problems first, right?
So the problem with talking about testing
is that we need to at least spend a few
minutes together coming up with what
is going to be in our time together
our language of testing, right?
Because there are a lot of terms
those terms mean things and
we use them wrong all the time.
And most of these terms
have been used wrong so
much that sometimes the wrong way is
more important than the right way.
So most of the first section is,
let's get on the same page when
I say words, what they mean.
And then we'll get kinda comfortable with
the very basics of some of the tools that
we're gonna use.
Disclaimer, these are my definitions,
and since I'm gonna do
the majority of the talking.
[LAUGH] Just so
you, we have a common frame of reference
to the things that I'm saying.
These do not represent the opinions of my
employer or anyone else in that matter,
particularly anyone on Twitter,
right, don't at me.
There is a wide range of tests,
they have different sets of trade-offs.
Anyone that, it's not fair.
I would be hesitant to say it should
these are the best kinds of tests,
there are trade-offs, right?
At my very scientific diagram here,
you can see that you've
got on one end unit tests.
You know what's cool about unit tests?
They run really fast, right?
Sometimes like if you have
the right editor plugin,
they'll like run in your editor and
put a red squiggly line or
something like to the left on
the sidebar almost immediately, right?
A lot of these are like put
two things in function,
see if the thing you expected
to come out came out, right?
That's really easy to run,
like V8 super good at that kind of stuff.
That said, they are testing to see if
you put two things into the function, so
the thing you expected to come out.
Yeah, that that's great to know that but
you know who's not doing that?
Your customers,
they are clicking buttons, right?
Usually the most hostile
way that they possibly can,
they are clicking buttons
from the web browser.
So all the way on the other end,
we've got to spin up a browser and
pretend to be the user clicking buttons.
Arguably, if you've got really
good tests in the sense, right,
that are doing all the things and
exercising your application,
you can be super confident that
you didn't break anything.
That said, as you are writing code,
you're probably not running
these all the time, right?
Because spinning out the browser,
navigating across,
hitting the buttons, it's not slow,
but it's not fast either, right?
And sometimes you think about,
what is the feedback loop that you have?
And if you can get immediate feedback
that the thing you did was bad,
then you can make the next decision,
right?
If you have to wait four minutes,
every time you make a decision,
the number of thoughts you could
have in a day is way lower, right?
And so there might be people say,
if it's covered by this test,
you shouldn't have unit tests,
I don't believe these people.
Sometimes I wanna know real fast,
sometimes I wanna know real
confidently and
I'm willing to wait a few minutes, right?
These are both fair things and
sometimes it may be I have two
tests of different kinds covering
relatively the same functionality
because I'm two different people.
I am both the person on call sometimes,
and
sometimes I'm the person trying
to write some code, right?
And those two people have different needs,
and so sometimes I will break the rules
and have different kinds of
tests testing the same thing.
And I think that that's totally okay.
And we'll talk about the one in the middle
when I get to the slide for that.
Like I said unit test smallest
possible testing get away with and
we get back what we expected,
that's a joke.
That's the only pun that I'll be
making today intentionally there was
mark the time.
And there we go.
Then on the other end of spectrum
there are end-to-end tests.
And I mean real end-to-end tests,
like true end-to-end tests, right?
Testing everything from like
the backend to auth the whole
soup to nuts, kicking the tires
on your application.
These are great, these are wonderful, I
have never seen these in the wild, right?
Because there's a lot of infrastructure,
and particularly on the front-end team,
you probably don't control a lot of it,
right?
So for instance,
to have a true end-to-end test, you need
the ability to spin up a brand new user
with a certain settings whether or
not they are pro user and
have a credit card and their whatever.
And then tear down that user, right, and
get everything back exactly
the way that it was, right?
There's lots of reasons
why you don't have this.
When I worked at certain company that
sent emails,
what we had was a pool of test users.
So only one test runner can be
running at a time because if two
tried to use the same user
they would both fail and
probably leave that user
in an unknown state and
then your tests would just break for
perpetuity, right, not great.
A lot of times you can't really test
truly against production because
especially when I worked for
a public company things that like made
the data not real, were bad, right?
So there's all sorts of reasons
why true spin up a brand new
database end-to-end doesn't exist.
A lot of times even on a large enough
company spinning up everything on
the fly is not a thing that you can do,
right?
And if you can,
we aspire to do it at Temporal, but
we can get away with stuff open source we
own the server so on and so forth, right?
We still don't have it, but
we are aspiring to do it.
But generally speaking, this is the ideal.
But also you can imagine these
are expensive and they are slow.
So they come with some
stuff in the middle.
Then we have the word integration tests.
This is the most hand wavy definition
that we're gonna talk about today.
Integration tests is like one or
more units, right?
Which is like almost everything, right,
after the various put two
things in a function,
look at the return result, right?
We're going use this to refer to our
spinning up Paywright or Cypress.
Something that's kicking the tires
on our app in the browser,
even if we have to mock out some of the
APIs or something along those lines and
kind of have it work in there.
We're gonna call those integration tests
because they are testing to see if all
of our components, when we slapped
them all together in that UI,
do they all act together nicely
the way that they should?
Is that truly an integration test,
I guess?
Are some of our unit test maybe
technically integration tests?
Sure, I don't care.
That's gonna be the term we use,
cuz I believe in my experience that is
generally are at least as Frontend
engineers are agreed upon terms.
I'm sure that someone will grab
a time machine from the early 80s and
tell me that I'm wrong, I don't care.
Lastly, component test,
which is a totally made up term,
which is those tests
somewhere in the middle.
Don't visit an entire page, but
maybe you grab me that accordion and
we open and close it a few times.
Maybe we fill in some fields on that
form of just that form component and
see if the button is enabled or
disabled, right?
These are somewhere in the middle of our
very small unit tests for utilities or
just JavaScript functions and
our browser-based ones.
These live kind of in the middle.
They are faster than spinning
up Playwright, but don't give
you the same amount of confidence as
literally just visiting the page,
stuff along those lines.
As we know, CSS is a thing, right?
And the box model is a thing.
And how a component operates when you
render it in isolation is different than
when you put it in a flex box or
something along those lines, right?
And so you these are a healthy trade-off.
And on any given application,
you can dial in how you feel about this.
I've seen applications where
it's a lot of component tests.
prior to testing library,
we installed enzyme, we installed it.
There is probably a component
test in there somewhere, right?
You can kind of choose your own adventure
with this, it's about, what works for
you and your team.
My job is to kind of at least show
you how to set these things up,
kind of take you through the paces of,
what's effective where,
what helps deal with what you wanna do,
so on and so forth.
And sometimes how can we
abuse some of these tools to
get test coverage when we don't have any,
right?
Maybe that's a Playwright test that
exercises your entire application.
Cool, at least he got that.
Maybe it's like, hey,
you know that function that nobody really
knows what it does and has no test we just
know that we don't want it to change?
Maybe that's a place for snapshot tests
despite what you read on the internet
about how snapshot tests are bad, right?
I don't know how it gets these outputs,
but just throw a bunch of stuff in it and
verify that it didn't change, right?
Like I copy and pasted a bunch of
API responses into a JSON file,
shove them all in and make sure what
comes out the other end is the same.
That's in a messy code base,
sometimes you got to do what you gotta do.